# DiceGame
This is a project implementing dice game in HTML, CSS and PHP
This project has been developed as part of Web Programming course. It has been developed using HTML, CSS and PHP. This is a game which involves pure luck. It is played between two players on a gameboard having numbered gridded squares.  A few random “danger zones” are pictured on the board, each connecting two specific board squares. The objective of the game is to navigate from the start (bottom square) to the finish (top square) with the help of die rolls and the resulting number helps or hinders by crossing the Danger zones, of one’s game piece. Users would also have to choose avatars that would move across the board as they rolled the dice. Whenever a user clicks on the Roll button, he will see a number between 1 to 6 being displayed and for this particular purpose we have used a PHP function called rand. Rand is a pre-built or predefined method which will generate a random number and here it took two parameters 1 and 6 as we wanted our dice to only have numbers from 1 to 6. So, we wanted to generate one random number within that range for that purpose. We have placed danger zones on every multiple of 7. Another code we implemented is if a user lands in any danger zone we would calculate what his current score is and then we would deduce five points from their respective scores. Index.php file is the landing page of our project, which also acts as a home page. There is a signup page where users must give a username and email address before logging in to the game. They would also have to accept the terms and conditions of the game to be able to sign up. There is also a providence to go to the sign in page without signing up redundantly for returning users. We validate returning user info using a text file. If any validation goes for a toss, we display an error message on UI. Signin page is where the user can sign in to enter the game by using the credentials, they used for signing up. We also made use of sessions to store user login info i.e., username, email and carry this info to other pages game.php, about.php pages. Sessions were also implemented for saving the game scores for every roll and player avatars. State of every page and state info on every tab switch like switching from home to about page, T&C to about page and vice-versa is also retained. During this project, we followed weekly scrums for about 10 mins and discussed impediments and what went well. In the initial 2 scrums we spent time discussing project requirements, refining requirements and came up with a proper plan with requirements and estimates. We also assigned tasks to equally distribute the workload. After which our scrums were scheduled periodically once a week where we would discuss the progress of the tasks and redistribute the tasks for workload management.
